**ExploreAT! Website**
> **Technology and structure**The *ExploreAT!* has been developed under the CMS Drupal, version 8, and can be accessed through https://exploreat.usal.es/.To make the Drupal core of the website work it must be linked with a MySQL database. This can be done by configuring the `settings.php` file inside the `/sites/default/` path of the website. Database information such as its name, username, password and host is required.To administrate the site and manage its sections, types of content, users and add-ons, the administrative panel can be accessed through [https://exploreat.usal.es/admin/](https://exploreat.usal.es/admin/).> **Web sections***ExploreAT!* website is divided in multiple sections with different aims and goals. Each of those sections include different information regarding the project, and allows users to get updates about it. The different sections are described up next. Some of them, “*About*”, “*Aims*” and “*Contact*” are included in the “*Front page*” of the website, and thus are not described in a separate subsection.* **Front page**The landing page of the site has been structured so it includes all the relevant information about the project. From the top of the page the prototypes hub can be reached (where all the developed code is stored and can be access as usable apps).The next section allows for a quick overview of the last events related to *ExploreAT!*, so visitors can get informed of upcoming meetings where advancements in the project are set to be discussed, conferences are attended, etc.The two next blocks include information regarding the project challenges and objectives, highlighting the developmental focus of the group and the tasks to be completed during the duration of the project.At last, related projects developed over time are linked at the bottom of the page along with contact information.* **Team**This section is aimed at presenting the members of the I team currently working on the project. It is divided by organization, so members are categorized by the place they’re developing their work at.It serves the purpose of showcasing the background of each of the participant members, as well as a quick link to their profile pages, where more information can be found about each of them, such as articles and a more complete description of his past and present work.* **Publications**In this section, every publication related to the *ExploreAT!* project is uploaded so visitors can read and learn more about the project developments and lines of investigation being explored as time goes on.Each publication can be accessed and has an own page with detailed information regarding the authors, a brief description or abstract, figures, videos and the related paper/poster/presentation if available.* **Events**The Events section works like the little section present in the Front page of the website, holding every event related to *ExploreAT!* from conferences to meetings and other reunions where the team took participation.Each event is linked to an individual page that details its aim and discussed topics, such as any other relevant information.* **News**This section aims to present news related to the ExploreAT! project, either directly or indirectly, to keep visitors updated about anything that could potentially affect the development of the project. This includes news about the team works, other projects in the same researching fields, etc.* **Blog**In this section, each of the team members would upload entries about topics of their interest and also related to the ExploreAT! project itself. This may include side-projects, developments in other areas of interest for the writing researcher, etc.> **User profiles**There are two different profiles registered in the website: the **administrator** and the **content creator**. While the administrator has the full array of managing functions at his disposal, the content creators can only add, modify or remove certain types of content to the website.Given that the administrator role is that generated by default by Drupal, its functions and available managing options won’t be discussed in this document. The actions content creators can perform can be found next.* **Content creator functions** **Login** In order to log in to [exploreat.usal.es](exploreat.usal.es) you should visit the following URL: [http://exploreat.usal.es/user/login](http://exploreat.usal.es/user/login) There is also a link to the login page in its footer (at the bottom), which can be found in any section of the site besides the homepage. Once in the login page, type your username and your password and you’d then be able to manage the site’s content and create new stuff.	
 **Editing your user password/email** Prior to doing anything, you should change your password in order to protect your account and make the whole system more secure. To do this you can edit your profile information by entering the “Edit” tab in your profile page. Once there, just type the password provided to you (inside the “Current password” field) and the new password you want to use for your account (inside the “Password” and “Confirm Password” fields) and save the changes. **Managing website content** As a member of the project you are able to manage some of the website content, mainly that related to you or created with a common purpose. Every user can edit its Author page, and also every News entry, Event, Publication and Blog entry. In order to see all of the content published in the website you can access the “Manage Content” section through the tab at the top of the explorer. The items that you can edit have a button at the right side of its row under the Operations column. You can modify them by clicking that button and changing the content of the post, then saving it.
 
 **Editing your profile as an ExploreAT! team member** Now that you know how to manage the website’s content, you can edit your member page (the one linked through the Team page of the webpage where we all appear). Just look for an entry containing your name and the type Author Profile and proceed to edit it.
  Your member page will then load, allowing you to edit its content. You can modify your About information, the email shown in the page, or even add your own Twitter and LinkedIn accounts to it. If you fill the Twitter or LinkedIn fields, please consider inputting both the URL to your profiles and also your “@handle” (in case of Twitter) or “LinkedIn” (in case of LinkedIn) inside the Link Text  fields in order for them to properly show in your page. 
 You can leave the Publications field blank for now. It should automatically fetch information about your publications (from ORCID) in the near future once the website is fully working. **Creating content** In order to create new content and have it added to any of the website’s sections you can access the Add Content page through the top tab. Once there, you can create an entry for any of the four available types of content in the website. Each of them has a little description under its link to the creation page. While creating a concrete piece of content multiple options and fields are available to fill, depending on the type. After you have finished writing the title and the body of the content (or including pictures, dates, etc) in the case of other types of content, you can just Save the post in order to publish it. This will make it appear in the section it is related to. You can later edit the post if you want to.> **Prototypes HUB*** **Page Structure**The main page of the project, where all the prototypes and applications are available, is the Prototype HUB, which is accesible at [https://exploreat.usal.es/exploreat/](https://exploreat.usal.es/exploreat/). In it, users can access to every developed system during the duration of the project, provided they have a registered user with login information (it can be requested through the main page of the HUB).Once logged in, visitors are presented with a grid of the available projects in the site, and can access each of them to try the concepts they try to explore and get knowledge and insight from them mostly in visual ways.There are 10 prototypes available, each of them covering a different part of the datasets being used from different points of view. They are described in the next section.

* **Prototypes Usage** **Geographical Lemmas** The prototype can be accessed following this URL:[http://exploreat.usal.es/exploreat/ex\_words](http://exploreat.usal.es/exploreat/ex_words) Given the dataset utilized in this prototype accounts for both information regarding the Lemma (related to words) and the Beleg (related to pronunciation), each field can be explored separately. Once loaded, the data can be interacted with in the map, where each point represent a record. Data can be filtered on top of the page to explore different contexts. **Word-Source Relations** The prototype can be accessed following this URL:[http://exploreat.usal.es/exploreat/ex\_words\_sources](http://exploreat.usal.es/exploreat/ex_words_sources) This prototype works similarly to the previous one, although it enables interaction with the records by clicking the circles, which in turn creates links between records related by the source (another field of the dataset) if the relation exists. Filtering and color coding works in the same way as in the first prototype. **Lemma Context Navigation** The prototype can be accessed following this URL:[http://exploreat.usal.es/exploreat/ex\_word\_treemap](http://exploreat.usal.es/exploreat/ex_word_treemap) In this prototype a treemap visualization is used to represent and explore contexts related to the searched term or lemma. By inputting a word in the text box and then generating the treemap, a visualization is created. Once created, the treemap represents different contexts (ten at most) where the searched word appears in inside the dataset. Each context is represented by both its name and a representative image fetched from Flickr (if available). Different contexts can be further explored by clicking them, which makes the visualization change and represent the actual lemmas inside the context related with the searched word. **Raw Questionnaire Exploration** The prototype can be accessed following this URL:[http://exploreat.usal.es/exploreat/ex\_fragebogen\_data\_div](http://exploreat.usal.es/exploreat/ex_fragebogen_data_div) The full set of questionnaires included in the dataset is used by this prototype. Filters can be applied (in terms of limiting the results depending on the lemmas, questionnaire number or even concrete questions). Then an HTML can be generated, which would show a hierarchical structure related to the query being made.  **Hierarchical Questionnaire Tree** The prototype can be accessed following this URL:[http://exploreat.usal.es/exploreat/ex\_fragebogen\_data\_tree](http://exploreat.usal.es/exploreat/ex_fragebogen_data_tree) This prototype works similarly to the previous one, although it presents the information in an interactive hierarchical structure that enables the expansion or contraction of nodes. **Circle Packed Questionnaires** The prototype can be accessed following this URL:[http://exploreat.usal.es/exploreat/ex\_fragebogen\_data\_circles](http://exploreat.usal.es/exploreat/ex_fragebogen_data_circles) This prototype works similarly to the previous one, although it presents the information in an interactive hierarchical structure based on circles that can be interacted with to further explore the data. **Bedeutung Prototype** The prototype can be accessed following this URL:[http://exploreat.usal.es/exploreat/ex\_bedeutung](http://exploreat.usal.es/exploreat/ex\_bedeutung) This prototype works similarly to the previous one, although it uses a different dataset and explores other fields available in it.  **Questionnaire Explorer** The prototype can be accessed following this URL:[http://exploreat.usal.es/exploreat/ex\_questionnaire\_explorer](http://exploreat.usal.es/exploreat/ex_questionnaire_explorer) This prototype has a text box where users can input the name (or part of it) of the questionnaire they’re looking for to get a list of coincidences under the list. Once the related questionnaires and fetched and presented in the list, they can be clicked, which in turn would create a visualization that shows the relations between the words defined in the selected questionnaire. To the right of the chord visualization, a word cloud appears when clicking over the chord and it shows the frequency with which each word appears in the selected questionnaire. **RDF Plants Explorer** The prototype can be accessed following this URL:[http://exploreat.usal.es/exploreat/ex\_rdf\_plants](http://exploreat.usal.es/exploreat/ex_rdf_plants) In this prototype users are presented with two different ways of exploring an RDF dataset regarding plants. Each record has either a common name or scientific name available, and common names are linked to a single scientific name. This data structure and its relations can be explored in this prototype both starting from the scientific name by selecting one of the available names from the drop down of the first section, which will create a list of related common names at the right side; or by typing a common name (or part of it) in the text box to find every record coinciding with the input. Once the user clicks the magnifying glass of any of the fetched records, data regarding that record will be tried to be retrieved from Europeana, including pictures, texts, audios, videos, and a set of geolocated documents that would be plotted in a map. Each of the retrieved documents (if any) can be further explored by clicking them. **TUSTEP Map** The prototype can be accessed following this URL:[http://exploreat.usal.es/exploreat/ex\_tustep\_map](http://exploreat.usal.es/exploreat/ex_tustep_map) This tool allows to improve the comprehension of the big amount of data we’re dealing with (around 3.5 million records and 200k headwords) and therefore to foster the acquisition of meaningful conclusions regarding the dataset. With that, analysts can discover cultural issues and access them through means of language and visualization. This is possible thanks to the multidimensional approach to data analysis we’ve taken, based on the use of maps, projections and other visualization artifacts. The interface of the application is divided in four parts, although only three of them are presented from the beginning. It can be reverted to its original appearance and status by clicking the top-right button (Restart Work Flow). The first section represents a spatial dimension of the data. The map can be explored by zooming and panning it, while also allows for the inclusion or exclusion of multiple features, and the change of the bucket (blue square regions in the map) resolution for them to hold more or less records and cover bigger or smaller portions of the geography. In the second section a temporal line is included. It represents the records of which the year they were recorded are known. They can be filtered by brushing, creating zones containing only a subset of the data by clicking and dragging the mouse over the timeline. The third section lets you look for concrete lemmas or combinations of lemmas, which will appear filtered both on the map and the timeline in real time. One or two lemmas can be inputted to fetch different results. When using the logical operator “AND”, both lemmas must appear on the searched word, while when using the operator “OR”, it’d be enough for one lemma of those inputted to appear in the word for the records related to it to be fetched as part of the results subset. Also, wildcards such as “ * ” (any set of characters) can be used in the input fields in order to look for partial lemmas. Finally, the fourth section allows for a social network analysis of the selected bucket. To do this, any bucket must be clicked to then explore it. The generated force directed graph includes all the lemmas that appear in the selected bucket and highlights their relations. By right-clicking any lemma, a dendrogram can be created at the bottom of the social network analysis zone, in which the relations of the lemma and the others included in the selected bucket are highlighted.